The two types of software products are generic products and customized products. Generic products are usually stand-alone systems that are sold to any customer who wants to buy and are targeted toward that specific customer﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿﻿. Some examples would be PC software like graphics cards, project management tools, software for specific markets such as doctors, and CAD software.
Customized products are more tailored for a specific customer in mind and is built toward their needs. Some examples would be embedded control systems. air traffic control sofware, and traffic monitoring systems. 


Software engineering is the design, development, testing, and evaluation of the software and systems in computers. Many engineers go through a rigorous validation process to ensure the software / program meets the standards for its use. Software engineering is also concerned with theories, methods and tools for professional software development. It is very important because the economies of all developed nations depend on software, therefore there are strict guidelines in place. 

Some fundemental activities that are common are software specification, software development, software validation, and software evolution. Software specification is where customeres and engineers define the software and its constraints. Software development is when the software is designed and programmed. Software validation is when the software is checked for errors and reliability. Finally, software evolution is where software is modified to reflect the ever-changing market.﻿
